We're gonna go do details that TSX.
So, as is tradition,
we go into deep details.
And we modify this to details TSX.
All right,
now we get a bunch of type errors.
It's exactly what we want.
Before we get too far into details,
we're gonna create a new file on the side
here inside of the source directory.
And we're just gonna call
it API ResponsesTypes.ts.
It's very common that
you'll have a project, and
you'll have like a grab bag
of types that you want to do.
And you put them in a separate file so
you can import them in other files.
People have varying different
methodologies of doing this.
I like just having Like one just for
API responses, maybe one for
other types of objects that I might
have maybe common types of objects.
Some people like to have one type one
file that seems aggressive to me.
But you know what you do you.
I'm if you feel that's the best
thing to do should do that.
Okay, first thing we do is we
gonna export a type of animal.
This is gonna be kind
of an enumerated type.
So, our animals,
we only have dog, cat, bird,
reptile or rabbit.
So if we identify something as an animal,
it can only be one of literally
only one of these strings, right?
If we try and put horse in there, it's
going to say nope, that's not an animal.
I know that you told me that already.
Yeah.
>> What happens if the API returned
something you didn't expect?
>> Your Programme is gonna crash.
So it does not help you with that.
So when you tell it like this is an API
response, and it's up this shape, right?
The types are going to help you enforce
that shape continues to look like that.
But you're not saved from the fact that
an API could change that on you, right?
If you want something like that,
you have to use something like what is it?
TRPC or something like that or there are
ways to generate types from API shapes,
but I mean,
that still can get messed up, right?
So maybe a different way of saying this is
that type script does not save you from
that problem.
You still have the normal problem
of what if my API is broken?
Yeah Yeah,
I was at LinkedIn.
I remember one of my companies,
we actually generated types from
API responses that ended up being
more annoying than worth it
to be totally frank with you.
I would have preferred to just
maintain the types by hand because
the types of the generated were nuts.
All right, export interface pet, and
we're just gonna type
what our pet looks like.
ID is a number, name is a string.
Animal is a animal.
We just made that one.
Description is a string,
breed is a string.
Images is an array of string.
City is a string, and state is a string.
Cool, cool.
Export, interface of PetAPIResponse
Some people like to really get into and
say call this IPet instead of
because it's an interface, right?
And it's the kind of signifies to that,
this is a type,
that's a dotnet thing someone
correct me if I'm wrong.
I've worked at Microsoft
at long enough to,
I should have written dotnet I never did.
I don't do it because it looks ugly to me,
and usually it's not a problem.
But I'll tell you that there are lots
of people that do it that way.
Number of results.
Number start index,
number end index,
number has next is a boolean
and pets is an array of pet objects.
All right, so there you go.
That is the types of our at
least our pet API search result.
And now we have this pet API response
shape in a couple places in our code,
and we just can continue to use it,
which is nice.
All right, so back at details.tsx here, we
are going to import our type here, import
PET API response from API responses types.
Okay, the top of the render function here.
If we don't have an ID here,
because in theory this ID can
come back as undefined, right?
Like what happens if we end
up on the details page, and
they didn't give us a correct ID?
Technically, it's possible for
that to happen.
And you can see here this ID can
be either string or undefined.
We have an error boundary.
So let's just lean into that, right?
If you remember down here at the bottom,
there's an error boundary.
Let's just throw an error, right?
So if there's no ID
then throw a new error.
Why did you not give me an ID?
I wanted an ID, I have no ID.
I write great error messages, okay?
This is a question, I suppose.
Maybe a couple exclamation points.
There we go, okay?